---
id: version-1.1.0-dev_notes
title: Developer Notes for Access Gateway
hide_title: true
original_id: dev_notes
---
# Developer Notes for Access Gateway
This section provides a guide for anyone testing existing features,
fixing a bug or adding a new feature to the Access Gateway. All developers are
highly encouraged to maintain this guide to make sure it is up to date and
continues to grow.

## Configuration/system settings
If you have a gateway running in a VM (as described in the [Quick Start
Guide](../basics/quick_start_guide)), the `magma` directory is shared between
the guest and host machine, so changes made on either system reflect on the
other.  Exceptions to this rule are the systemd unit files and python scripts.
Changes to these files on the guest or host need to be manually synced.

### Configuration files/directories
  - `/etc/magma/`: location of default configurations and templates for all
    services
  - `/etc/magma/gateway.mconfig`: main file that contains the configuration for
    all services, as exposed via the Orc8r API
  - `/var/opt/magma/configs/gateway.mconfig`: For gateways connected to an
    orchestrator, the configuration from Orc8r is periodically streamed to the
gateway and written here. This streamed config takes precedence over
`/etc/magma/gateway.mconfig`.
  - `/etc/magma/<service_name>.yml`: Service configuration file, in YAML format.
    These configurations are local and are not exposed through the API. These
include logging level, local network interface names, etc.
  - `/etc/magma/templates/<service_name>.conf.template`: This contains the
    structured template for the <service_name>.conf file used as input to
some services, such as Control-proxy, Dnsd, MME and Redis.
  - `/var/opt/magma/tmp/<service_name>.conf`: The configuration file read by
    some services, such as Control-proxy, Dnsd, MME and Redis, at start-up. This
file is generated by mapping the configuration values from `gateway.mconfig` and
`<service.yml>` to the template defined in `<service_name>.conf.template`.

### Systemd unit configuration files
  - `/etc/systemd/system/magma@<service_name>.service`: Systemd unit
    files for Magma service. Note that these files are maintained under
`magma/lte/gateway/deploy/roles/magma/files/systemd/` and are copied into the
`/etc/systemd/system` directory of the VM at the time of provisioning. You need
to manually sync changes to these files between guest and host OS.

### Python scripts to generate configs
  - `generate_<service>_config.py`: Scripts that generate the
    `<service_name>.conf` file for some services. These are executed every time
a service starts.
Note that these files are maintained under `magma/lte/gateway/python/scripts`
and copied to the `/usr/local/bin` directory in the guest host at the time of
provisioning.  Changes to these scripts need to be manually synced between the
guest and host OS.

## Testing
### Connecting a physical eNodeB and UE to Gateway VM
While the [S1ap integration tests](s1ap_tests.md) provide a simulated UE(s) and
eNodeB(s) to test your AGW VM while actively developing, one can extend the
testing to physical UE and eNodeB.
To connect a physical eNodeB to the gateway VM:
1. Connect the eNodeB to a port on the host machine, say it is interface `en9`.
1. From the VirtualBox GUI, switch the Adapter 1 (for `eth1` interface) from
`Host-only` to `Bridged` mode and bridge it to interface `en9` from above.
1. In gateway VM, modify the `nat_iface` in `/etc/magma/pipelined.yml` from
`eth2` to `eth0`. Restart all services.
1. In the gateway VM, follow the steps in [EnodeB
Configuration](enodebd#basic-troubleshooting). Make sure the `earfcn` set in the
enodebd section of `gateway.mconfig` is the one that is supported by the eNodeB
under consideration.

To connect a physical UE to the gateway VM,
1. Use a programmable SIM which is provisioned with the LTE auth key that you
will use in the EPC.
1. On the gateway VM, add the subscriber using the CLI:
  1. `magtivate`
  1. `subscriber_cli.py add --lte-auth-key <base64 LTE auth key> IMSI<15 digit
IMSI>`

1. On the UE, turn airplane mode on, then off, to trigger a fresh attach

## Debugging
### Logs
To change the logging level for a particular service, please modify the
`log_level` in `/etc/magma/<service_name>.yml`

- `/var/log/syslog`: gives a good view of all the Magma services
running on the AGW. This is a good place to check whether the AGW is connecting
to the orchestrator, any GRPC errors or which service is causing a cascaded
crash (e.g. a crash in Sessiond can cause Mme service to terminate).
 A good way to filter the logs from individual processes is with `journalctl`.
For example, to look at logs from SubscriberDb use:
 `sudo journalctl -fu magma@subscriberdb`

- `/var/log/mme.log` is a symbolic link that points to the latest log file
created by the MME service. The Mme service creates a new log file with name
`MME.magma-dev.root.log.INFO.<date>-<time>.<PID>` every time the service is
(re)started. The AGW maintains the 10 most recent log files.

- `/var/log/enodebd.log` contains the logs from Enodebd

### CLIs
Many services have a command line interface (CLI) that can be used for
debugging and configuration. Check the [AGW
Readme](README_AGW.md#command-line-interfaces) for more details.

### Analyzing raw network packets
If you want to look at the raw packets sent over the network, `tcpdump` is a
useful tool to capture and save them to a file. It is not installed
by default on the access gateway, so you need to do `sudo apt-get install
tcpdump` to install it. Next, you can:
- Capture packets on the eNodeB
interface: `sudo tcpdump -i eth1 -w <file_name>`
- Capture packets on all interfaces (filter out SSH traffic so your local SSH
session doesn't bloat the capture): `sudo tcpdump -i any "not port 22" -w
<file_name>`

### Analyzing coredumps
If any of the AGW services crash with a segmentation fault, a coredump is
preserved in a directory named `core-<timestamp>-<process_name>[-<PID>]` under
the `/tmp` directory on the AGW. For example:

- `core-1558015879-ITTI_bundle` is a coredump from MME
- `core-1585761965-sessiond-12741_bundle` is a coredump from sessiond
- `core-1582710288-python3-17823_bundle` is a coredump from a python service
running with PID 17823

For the coredumps generated by MME or sessiond, you can read them through `gdb`,
as follows:

`cd /tmp/<core-directory>/`
`gunzip <core gzip file>`
`gdb /usr/local/bin/<process name> <unzipped core file>`

From within the gdb shell, `bt` command will display the backtrace for the
segmentation fault.

TODO: add steps to read coredumps from python services

### Running MME with gdb
If you need to debug MME with gdb, make sure all the services that it is
dependent on are already running. Follow the steps below:
1. `sudo service magma@magmad start`
1. `sudo service magma@mme stop`
1. `sudo service sctpd start`
1. `sudo service magma@mobilityd start`
1. `sudo service magma@pipelined start`
1. `sudo service magma@sessiond start`
1. `sudo gdb /usr/local/bin/mme`

### Checking Redis entries for stateless services

When the services are running in stateless mode, as described in [Testing
stateless Access Gateway](s1ap_tests#testing-stateless-access-gateway), you can
connect to the redis service with `redis-cli -p 6380`. Then on the shell, you
can list all the keys with `KEYS *`. The keys for state follow the pattern
`<IMSI>:<Service/MME task>`. For example:

- `IMSI001010000000001:SPGW` is the state preserved for IMSI
001010000000001 by SPGW task in Mme service
- Keys such as `spgw_state`,`s1ap_state`,`mme_nas_state` are used to store
gateway wide state for a particular task in the MME process
- Mobilityd stores state with the key `mobilityd:sid_to_descriptors`
