docs/readmes/basics/prerequisites.md, before:

---
id: prerequisites
title: Prerequisites
hide_title: true
---
# Prerequisites

These are the prerequisites to setting up a full private LTE Magma deployment.
Additional prerequisites for developers can be found in the developer's guide.

## Development Tools

Install the following tools:

1. [Docker](https://www.docker.com) and Docker Compose
2. [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) *only* for MacOS users
3. [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/)
3. [Vagrant](https://vagrantup.com)

Replace `brew` with your OS-appropriate package manager as necessary, or see
the [pyenv installation instructions](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#installation).

```bash
brew install pyenv

# Replace .zshrc with your appropriate shell RC file
# IMPORTANT: Use .bash_profile, not .bashrc for bash
echo -e 'if command -v pyenv 1>/dev/null 2>&1; then\n  eval "$(pyenv init -)"\nfi' >> ~/.zshrc
exec $SHELL
pyenv install 3.7.3
pyenv global 3.7.3

pip3 install ansible fabric3 jsonpickle requests PyYAML
vagrant plugin install vagrant-vbguest
```

If you are on MacOS, you should start Docker for Mac and increase the memory
allocation for the Docker engine to at least 4GB (Preferences -> Advanced).

![Increasing docker engine resources](assets/docker-config.png)

## Build/Deploy Tooling

We support building the AGW and Orchestrator on MacOS and Linux host operating
systems. Doing so on a Windows environment should be possible but has not been
tested. You may prefer to use a Linux virtual machine if you are on a Windows
host.

First, follow the previous section on developer tools. Then, install some
additional prerequisite tools (replace `brew` with your OS-appropriate package
manager as necessary):

```bash
brew install aws-iam-authenticator boto3 kubernetes-cli kubernetes-helm terraform
pip3 install awscli
aws configure
```

Provide the access key ID and secret key for an administrator user in AWS
(don't use the root user) when prompted by `aws configure`. Skip this step if
you will use something else for managing AWS credentials.

## Production Hardware

### Access Gateways

Access gateways (AGWs) can be deployed on to any AMD64 architecture machine
which can support a Debian Linux installation. The basic system requirements
for the AGW production hardware are:

1. 2+ physical ethernet interfaces
2. AMD64 dual-core processor around 2GHz clock speed or faster
3. 2GB RAM
4. 128GB-256GB SSD storage

In addition, in order to build the AGW, you should have on hand:

1. A USB stick with 2GB+ capacity to load a Debian Stretch ISO
2. Peripherals (keyboard, screen) for your production AGW box for use during
provisioning

### RAN Equipment

We currently have tested with the following EnodeB's:

1. Baicells Nova 233 TDD Outdoor
2. Baicells Nova 243 TDD Outdoor
3. Assorted Baicells indoor units (for lab deployments)

Support for other RAN hardware can be implemented inside the `enodebd` service
on the AGW, but we recommend starting with one of these EnodeBs.

### Orchestrator and NMS

Orchestrator deployment depends on the following components:

1. An AWS account
2. A Docker image repository (e.g. Docker Hub, JFrog)
3. A registered domain for Orchestrator endpoints

We recommend deploying the Orchestrator cloud component of magma into AWS.
Our open-source Terraform scripts target an AWS deployment environment, but if
you are familiar with devops and are willing to roll your own, Orchestrator can
run on any public/private cloud with a Kubernetes cluster available to use.
The deployment documentation will assume an AWS deployment environment - if
this is your first time using or deploying Orchestrator, we recommend that you
follow this guide before attempting to deploy it elsewhere.

You will also need a Docker image repository available to publish the various
Orchestrator NMS containers to. We recommend using a private repository for
this.

Commit message:

Add Helm repository and fluentd cert generation to docs
Reviewed By: mpgermano

Differential Revision: D20395129

fbshipit-source-id: 17e40e5a1549878f523a954e9a4595d43268dce9

docs/readmes/basics/prerequisites.md, after:

---
id: prerequisites
title: Prerequisites
hide_title: true
---
# Prerequisites

These are the prerequisites to setting up a full private LTE Magma deployment.
Additional prerequisites for developers can be found in the developer's guide.

## Development Tools

Install the following tools:

1. [Docker](https://www.docker.com) and Docker Compose
2. [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) *only* for MacOS users
3. [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/)
3. [Vagrant](https://vagrantup.com)

Replace `brew` with your OS-appropriate package manager as necessary, or see
the [pyenv installation instructions](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#installation).

```bash
brew install pyenv

# Replace .zshrc with your appropriate shell RC file
# IMPORTANT: Use .bash_profile, not .bashrc for bash
echo -e 'if command -v pyenv 1>/dev/null 2>&1; then\n  eval "$(pyenv init -)"\nfi' >> ~/.zshrc
exec $SHELL
pyenv install 3.7.3
pyenv global 3.7.3

pip3 install ansible fabric3 jsonpickle requests PyYAML
vagrant plugin install vagrant-vbguest
```

If you are on MacOS, you should start Docker for Mac and increase the memory
allocation for the Docker engine to at least 4GB (Preferences -> Advanced).

![Increasing docker engine resources](assets/docker-config.png)

## Build/Deploy Tooling

We support building the AGW and Orchestrator on MacOS and Linux host operating
systems. Doing so on a Windows environment should be possible but has not been
tested. You may prefer to use a Linux virtual machine if you are on a Windows
host.

First, follow the previous section on developer tools. Then, install some
additional prerequisite tools (replace `brew` with your OS-appropriate package
manager as necessary):

```bash
brew install aws-iam-authenticator boto3 kubernetes-cli kubernetes-helm terraform
pip3 install awscli
aws configure
```

Provide the access key ID and secret key for an administrator user in AWS
(don't use the root user) when prompted by `aws configure`. Skip this step if
you will use something else for managing AWS credentials.

## Production Hardware

### Access Gateways

Access gateways (AGWs) can be deployed on to any AMD64 architecture machine
which can support a Debian Linux installation. The basic system requirements
for the AGW production hardware are:

1. 2+ physical ethernet interfaces
2. AMD64 dual-core processor around 2GHz clock speed or faster
3. 2GB RAM
4. 128GB-256GB SSD storage

In addition, in order to build the AGW, you should have on hand:

1. A USB stick with 2GB+ capacity to load a Debian Stretch ISO
2. Peripherals (keyboard, screen) for your production AGW box for use during
provisioning

### RAN Equipment

We currently have tested with the following EnodeB's:

1. Baicells Nova 233 TDD Outdoor
2. Baicells Nova 243 TDD Outdoor
3. Assorted Baicells indoor units (for lab deployments)

Support for other RAN hardware can be implemented inside the `enodebd` service
on the AGW, but we recommend starting with one of these EnodeBs.

### Orchestrator and NMS

Orchestrator deployment depends on the following components:

1. An AWS account
2. A Docker image repository (e.g. Docker Hub, JFrog)
3. A Helm chart repository (e.g. JFrog, Github)*
4. A registered domain for Orchestrator endpoints

\* See https://blog.softwaremill.com/hosting-helm-private-repository-from-github-ff3fa940d0b7
to set up a private Github repository as a Helm repository.

We recommend deploying the Orchestrator cloud component of magma into AWS.
Our open-source Terraform scripts target an AWS deployment environment, but if
you are familiar with devops and are willing to roll your own, Orchestrator can
run on any public/private cloud with a Kubernetes cluster available to use.
The deployment documentation will assume an AWS deployment environment - if
this is your first time using or deploying Orchestrator, we recommend that you
follow this guide before attempting to deploy it elsewhere.
