---
id: tr069
title: Add eNB TR-069 Support
hide_title: true
---

# Add eNB TR-069 Support

## enodebd Overview

The enodebd service is responsible for any TR-069 management of eNodeB devices.
As such, you’ll only need to modify enodebd to add support for a new eNB.

At a high level, enodebd brings up a server, the tr069_server, and when the
tr069_server receives an HTTP request, it translates the contained SOAP message
into the corresponding model representing the message, eg. Inform,
GetParameterRequest, etc. It takes the message, and passes it on to the
StateMachineManager.

The StateMachineManager, as the name implies, manages different state machines.
One state machine is used for each eNB that the Magma AGW is managing. Using
the IP of the HTTP request, the StateMachineManager routes the request to the
correct state machine (also called ‘Handler’).

Each EnodebAcsStateMachine contains a representation of the configuration that
we believe the eNB has. It also contains the configuration that we desire to
set on it. These are labeled as the ‘device configuration’ and ‘desired
configuration’. Each state machine will attempt to configure its corresponding
eNB to the desired configuration.

Configuration through TR-069 is done in the ‘Provisioning Session’. The state
machine has a state for each step of the provisioning session, each with its
own logic for how to process the incoming TR-069 message, and how to construct
the TR-069 response. Most of these states are in
enodebd/state_machines/enb_acs_states.py, since the provisioning session
happens nearly the same way for most devices. There are differences though,
and so there is a different state machine for each supported eNB device model,
which can be found under enodebd/devices.


## Adding an eNB
To add TR-069 support, the TR-069 data model is needed for the device, as well
as the hardware model, and software version. A new state machine should be
created under enodebd/devices.

For the data model, the same parameter will have different paths for different
devices, and may even have its value formatted differently. For these
formatting differences, the ‘transform’ functions should be added to transform
the parameter value from the formatting that the eNB uses, to the common
formatting that Magma enodebd understands, and vice-versa.

For constructing the desired-configuration of the eNB, there will be
differences between devices. Attach a EnodebConfigurationPostProcessor to the
eNB state machine, and add any logic for modifying the desired-configuration
beyond the defaults that enodebd already does.

The provisioning session can occur a little different for each eNB. The state
map attached to each state machine lets you customize the state machine for
differences between devices. Some devices require rebooting for parameter
changes to take effect, for example. You can add/remove behavior through this
map, and also add custom states.

[An example pull request for adding an eNB](https://github.com/facebookincubator/magma/commit/e1d4564f7daa7a4c1be135e8dbffe7a10bfa4e34)

## Testing
Make sure that the eNB is configured to reach out to
baiomc.cloudapp.net:48080, so that Magma’s DNS hijacking works, and routes
TR-069 messages through iptables to enodebd’s TR-069 server. Debugging can most
easily be done with tcpdump, and then viewing the SOAP messages through
Wireshark.

Magma's dnsd service configures dnsmasq for DNS hijacking. See: dnsd.yml. You
can modify dnsd.yml and restart the service for further configuration.
