docs/readmes/orc8r/deploy_install.md, before:

---
id: deploy_install
title: Installing Orchestrator
hide_title: true
---
# Installing Orchestrator

## SSL Certificates

First, create a local directory to hold the certificates that you will use for
your Orchestrator deployment. These certificates will be uploaded to AWS
Secretsmanager and you can delete them locally afterwards.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/secrets/certs
```

You will need the following certificates and private keys:

1. The public SSL certificate for your Orchestrator domain,
with CN=*.yourdomain.com. This can be an SSL certificate chain, but it must be
in one file
2. The private key which corresponds to the above SSL certificate
3. The rootCA certificate which verifies your SSL certificate.

If you already have these files, you can do the following:

1. Rename your public SSL certificate to `controller.crt`
2. Rename your SSL certificate's private key to `controller.key`
3. Rename your SSL certificate's root CA to `rootCA.pem`
4. Put these 3 files under the directory you created above

If you aren't worried about a browser warning, you can also self-sign these
certs:

```bash
cd ~/secrets/certs
MAGMA_ROOT/orc8r/cloud/deploy/scripts/self_sign_certs.sh yourdomain.com
```

Regardless of if you've self-signed your certs or used existing ones, run
one more script here:

```bash
cd ~/secrets/certs
MAGMA_ROOT/orc8r/cloud/deploy/scripts/create_application_certs.sh yourdomain.com
```

## Infrastructure and Application Installation

Create a new root Terraform module in a location of your choice by creating a
new `main.tf` file. Follow the example Terraform root module at
`orc8r/cloud/deploy/terraform/orc8r-helm-aws/examples/basic` but make sure to
override the following parameters:

- `deploy_nms`: IMPORTANT - this should be `false` for now!
- `nms_db_password`
- `orc8r_db_password`
- `orc8r_domain_name`
- `docker_registry`
- `docker_user`
- `docker_pass`
- `helm_repo`
- `helm_user`
- `helm_pass`
- `seed_certs_dir`: set this to `"~/secrets/certs"`, or whatever directory you
generated your certificates into in the steps above.
- `orc8r_tag`: this should be set to the tag that you used when you pushed the
containers that you built earlier.

Make sure that the `source` variables for the module definitions point to
`github.com/facebookincubator/magma//orc8r/cloud/deploy/terraform/<module>`.
Adjust any other parameters as you see fit - check the READMEs for the
relevant Terraform modules to see additional variables that can be set.

### Initial Infrastructure Terraform

The 2 Terraform modules are organized so that `orc8r-aws` contains all the
resource definitions for the cloud infrastructure that you'll need to run
Orchestrator and `orc8r-helm-aws` contains all of the application components
behind Orchestrator. On the very first installation, you'll have to
`terraform apply` the infrastructure before the application. On later changes
to your Terraform root module, you can make all changes at once with a single
`terraform apply`.

With your root module set up, simply run

```bash
$ terraform apply -target=module.orc8r

# Note: actual resource count will depend on your root module variables
Apply complete! Resources: 70 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

This `terraform apply` will create a Kubeconfig file in the same directory as
your root Terraform module. To get access to the k8s cluster, either set your
KUBECONFIG environment variable to point to this file or pull this file into
your default kubeconfig file at `~/.kube/config`. See 
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/
for more details.

### Initial Application Terraform

We can now move on to the first application installation. From your same root
Terraform module, run

```bash
$ terraform apply -target=module.orc8r-app.null_resource.orc8r_seed_secrets

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

$ terraform apply

Apply complete! Resources: 16 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

### Creating an Admin User

Before we deploy the NMS, we need to create an admin user for the NMS backend
server inside Orchestrator.

NOTE: In all the below `kubectl` commands, use the `-n` flag or `kubens` to
select the appropriate k8s namespace (by default this is `orc8r`).

```bash
export CNTLR_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app.kubernetes.io/component=controller -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
kubectl exec -it ${CNTLR_POD} bash

# The following commands are to be run inside the pod
(pod)$ cd /var/opt/magma/bin
(pod)$ envdir /var/opt/magma/envdir ./accessc add-admin -cert admin_operator admin_operator
(pod)$ openssl pkcs12 -export -out admin_operator.pfx -inkey admin_operator.key.pem -in admin_operator.pem

Enter Export Password:
Verifying - Enter Export Password:

(pod)$ exit
```

Now on your host, copy down the client certificates for the admin operator we
just created into the secrets directory:

```bash
cd ~/secrets/certs
for certfile in admin_operator.pem admin_operator.key.pem admin_operator.pfx
do
    kubectl cp ${CNTLR_POD}:/var/opt/magma/bin/${certfile} ./${certfile}
done
```

`admin_operator.pem` and `admin_operator.key.pem` are the files that NMS will
use to authenticate itself with the Orchestrator API. `admin_operator.pfx` is
for you to add to your keychain if you'd like to use the Orchestrator REST API
directly (on MacOS, double-click this file and add it to your keychain).

We can now upload these new certificates to AWS Secretsmanager:

```bash
$ terraform taint module.orc8r-app.null_resource.orc8r_seed_secrets
$ terraform apply

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 1 destroyed.
```

At this point, you can `rm -rf ~/secrets` to remove the certificates from your
local disk (we recommend this for security). If you ever need to update your
certificates, you can create this local directory again and `terraform taint`
the `null_resource` to re-upload local certificates to Secretsmanager.

### Final Application Terraform

We can now Terraform for a last time and deploy the NMS. In your root Terraform
module, set the `deploy_nms` variable to `true` now, and

```bash
$ terraform apply

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 1 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

Finally, create an admin user for the "master" organization on the NMS:

```bash
kubectl exec -it \
  $(kubectl get pod -l app.kubernetes.io/component=magmalte -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -- \
  yarn setAdminPassword master <admin user email> <admin user password>
```

## DNS Resolution

EKS has been set up with `external-dns` so AWS Route53 will already have the
appropriate CNAME records for the relevant subdomains of Orchestrator at this
point. You will need to configure your DNS records on your managed domain name
to use the Route53 nameservers in order to resolve these subdmains.

The example terraform root module has an output `nameservers` which will list
the Route53 nameservers for the hosted zone for Orchestrator. You have probably
already noticed some output with every `terraform apply` that looks like

```
Outputs:

nameservers = [
  "ns-xxxx.awsdns-yy.org",
  "ns-xxxx.awsdns-yy.co.uk",
  "ns-xxxx.awsdns-yy.com",
  "ns-xxxx.awsdns-yy.net",
]
```

For each of these following subdomains, add an NS Record to the above
nameservers on your domain registrar:

1. nms
2. controller
3. bootstrapper-controller
4. api

If you chose a subdomain prefix for your Orchestrator domain name in your
root Terraform module, you'll have to append that subdomain prefix to your
NS Record names. For example, if you chose `orc8r.yourdomain.com` for your
Route53 zone, you'll have to add NS Records for `nms.orc8r`, `api.orc8r`, and
so on.

## Upgrading the Deployment

You can upgrade the deployment simply by changing the `orc8r_tag` variable in
your root Terraform module to the new software version that you want to run
and running `terraform apply`. Changes to the Terraform modules between
releases may require some updates to your root Terraform module - these will
be communicated in release notes.

Commit message:

clarify domain names in cert creation should match what's defined in the terraform scripts later on
Summary: During ENS dogfooding and when Aspire technologies was spinning up a new orc8r the domain name used for certs did not match the templated domain name specified in main.tf. This diff is just to warn the users that the domain names are the same and the `orc8r.` prefix should be included during certs creation if being used in terraform later.

Reviewed By: hcgatewood

Differential Revision: D21999159

fbshipit-source-id: 1e2dd28f8d906b057ad54da8c71aa544bd4294a7

docs/readmes/orc8r/deploy_install.md, after:

---
id: deploy_install
title: Installing Orchestrator
hide_title: true
---
# Installing Orchestrator

## SSL Certificates

First, create a local directory to hold the certificates that you will use for
your Orchestrator deployment. These certificates will be uploaded to AWS
Secretsmanager and you can delete them locally afterwards.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/secrets/certs
```

You will need the following certificates and private keys:

1. The public SSL certificate for your Orchestrator domain,
with CN=*.yourdomain.com. This can be an SSL certificate chain, but it must be
in one file
2. The private key which corresponds to the above SSL certificate
3. The rootCA certificate which verifies your SSL certificate.

If you already have these files, you can do the following:

1. Rename your public SSL certificate to `controller.crt`
2. Rename your SSL certificate's private key to `controller.key`
3. Rename your SSL certificate's root CA to `rootCA.pem`
4. Put these 3 files under the directory you created above

If you aren't worried about a browser warning, you can also self-sign these
certs:

```bash
cd ~/secrets/certs
MAGMA_ROOT/orc8r/cloud/deploy/scripts/self_sign_certs.sh yourdomain.com
```

Regardless of if you've self-signed your certs or used existing ones, run
one more script here:

```bash
cd ~/secrets/certs
MAGMA_ROOT/orc8r/cloud/deploy/scripts/create_application_certs.sh yourdomain.com
```

NOTE: `yourdomain.com` should match with what will be entered in `main.tf` in the subsequent sections. If in `main.tf` the orc8r_domain_name is `orc8r.yourdomain.com` then the same nomenclature should be used when creating new self-signed certs.

## Infrastructure and Application Installation

Create a new root Terraform module in a location of your choice by creating a
new `main.tf` file. Follow the example Terraform root module at
`orc8r/cloud/deploy/terraform/orc8r-helm-aws/examples/basic` but make sure to
override the following parameters:

- `deploy_nms`: IMPORTANT - this should be `false` for now!
- `nms_db_password`
- `orc8r_db_password`
- `orc8r_domain_name`
- `docker_registry`
- `docker_user`
- `docker_pass`
- `helm_repo`
- `helm_user`
- `helm_pass`
- `seed_certs_dir`: set this to `"~/secrets/certs"`, or whatever directory you
generated your certificates into in the steps above.
- `orc8r_tag`: this should be set to the tag that you used when you pushed the
containers that you built earlier.

Make sure that the `source` variables for the module definitions point to
`github.com/facebookincubator/magma//orc8r/cloud/deploy/terraform/<module>`.
Adjust any other parameters as you see fit - check the READMEs for the
relevant Terraform modules to see additional variables that can be set.

### Initial Infrastructure Terraform

The 2 Terraform modules are organized so that `orc8r-aws` contains all the
resource definitions for the cloud infrastructure that you'll need to run
Orchestrator and `orc8r-helm-aws` contains all of the application components
behind Orchestrator. On the very first installation, you'll have to
`terraform apply` the infrastructure before the application. On later changes
to your Terraform root module, you can make all changes at once with a single
`terraform apply`.

With your root module set up, simply run

```bash
$ terraform apply -target=module.orc8r

# Note: actual resource count will depend on your root module variables
Apply complete! Resources: 70 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

This `terraform apply` will create a Kubeconfig file in the same directory as
your root Terraform module. To get access to the k8s cluster, either set your
KUBECONFIG environment variable to point to this file or pull this file into
your default kubeconfig file at `~/.kube/config`. See
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/
for more details.

### Initial Application Terraform

We can now move on to the first application installation. From your same root
Terraform module, run

```bash
$ terraform apply -target=module.orc8r-app.null_resource.orc8r_seed_secrets

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

$ terraform apply

Apply complete! Resources: 16 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

### Creating an Admin User

Before we deploy the NMS, we need to create an admin user for the NMS backend
server inside Orchestrator.

NOTE: In all the below `kubectl` commands, use the `-n` flag or `kubens` to
select the appropriate k8s namespace (by default this is `orc8r`).

```bash
export CNTLR_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app.kubernetes.io/component=controller -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
kubectl exec -it ${CNTLR_POD} bash

# The following commands are to be run inside the pod
(pod)$ cd /var/opt/magma/bin
(pod)$ envdir /var/opt/magma/envdir ./accessc add-admin -cert admin_operator admin_operator
(pod)$ openssl pkcs12 -export -out admin_operator.pfx -inkey admin_operator.key.pem -in admin_operator.pem

Enter Export Password:
Verifying - Enter Export Password:

(pod)$ exit
```

Now on your host, copy down the client certificates for the admin operator we
just created into the secrets directory:

```bash
cd ~/secrets/certs
for certfile in admin_operator.pem admin_operator.key.pem admin_operator.pfx
do
    kubectl cp ${CNTLR_POD}:/var/opt/magma/bin/${certfile} ./${certfile}
done
```

`admin_operator.pem` and `admin_operator.key.pem` are the files that NMS will
use to authenticate itself with the Orchestrator API. `admin_operator.pfx` is
for you to add to your keychain if you'd like to use the Orchestrator REST API
directly (on MacOS, double-click this file and add it to your keychain).

We can now upload these new certificates to AWS Secretsmanager:

```bash
$ terraform taint module.orc8r-app.null_resource.orc8r_seed_secrets
$ terraform apply

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 1 destroyed.
```

At this point, you can `rm -rf ~/secrets` to remove the certificates from your
local disk (we recommend this for security). If you ever need to update your
certificates, you can create this local directory again and `terraform taint`
the `null_resource` to re-upload local certificates to Secretsmanager.

### Final Application Terraform

We can now Terraform for a last time and deploy the NMS. In your root Terraform
module, set the `deploy_nms` variable to `true` now, and

```bash
$ terraform apply

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 1 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

Finally, create an admin user for the "master" organization on the NMS:

```bash
kubectl exec -it \
  $(kubectl get pod -l app.kubernetes.io/component=magmalte -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') -- \
  yarn setAdminPassword master <admin user email> <admin user password>
```

## DNS Resolution

EKS has been set up with `external-dns` so AWS Route53 will already have the
appropriate CNAME records for the relevant subdomains of Orchestrator at this
point. You will need to configure your DNS records on your managed domain name
to use the Route53 nameservers in order to resolve these subdmains.

The example terraform root module has an output `nameservers` which will list
the Route53 nameservers for the hosted zone for Orchestrator. You have probably
already noticed some output with every `terraform apply` that looks like

```
Outputs:

nameservers = [
  "ns-xxxx.awsdns-yy.org",
  "ns-xxxx.awsdns-yy.co.uk",
  "ns-xxxx.awsdns-yy.com",
  "ns-xxxx.awsdns-yy.net",
]
```

For each of these following subdomains, add an NS Record to the above
nameservers on your domain registrar:

1. nms
2. controller
3. bootstrapper-controller
4. api

If you chose a subdomain prefix for your Orchestrator domain name in your
root Terraform module, you'll have to append that subdomain prefix to your
NS Record names. For example, if you chose `orc8r.yourdomain.com` for your
Route53 zone, you'll have to add NS Records for `nms.orc8r`, `api.orc8r`, and
so on.

## Upgrading the Deployment

You can upgrade the deployment simply by changing the `orc8r_tag` variable in
your root Terraform module to the new software version that you want to run
and running `terraform apply`. Changes to the Terraform modules between
releases may require some updates to your root Terraform module - these will
be communicated in release notes.
