TL;DR
-----
1. `build-magma.sh` on the dev VM creates packages.
2. Commit changes to build-magma.sh, CHANGELOG, and magma.lockfile.

Creating a release package.
---------------------------
Run `build-magma.sh` on your dev VM to create a Magma release. Note: this should
be done WITHOUT running 'magtivate' (or after running 'deactivate').
This will build everything, identify dependencies (assuming they're specified in
the setup.py properly), and create a Debian package in the magma/release
directory.

For a production release, you'll want to bump the package version probably --
this can be done inside build-magma.sh. The version number should be bumped
when there is a minor or major feature or bug fix release. If you're just
making a minor tweak (e.g., mistake in building the package), you can also
increment the iteration number.

In addition, ALWAYS update the CHANGELOG when you make a release. This helps us
keep track of when we did what.

Testing a release package before you push it.
---------------------------------------------
You should always do this. In general, try your best not to release broken
packages.

1. Build the release like you normally would.
2. Spin up a fresh prod VM or gateway and copy the magma_<version>.deb generated
from build-magma.sh.
3. Run `sudo apt-get install gdebi; sudo gdebi
   magma_<version>.deb'
4. A VM reload or gateway reboot will likely be required due to kernel upgrade. 

This will simulate the exact steps that apt-get performs in production.
After you've done this, your environment is identical to what you'll have if
you had released your package and run `apt-get install magma`.

If you want to test upgrading versions, skip the part where you spin up a fresh
prod VM, and instead set up a VM with whatever version you're trying to test
upgrade from. For example, if you want to test upgrading from the currrently
released version N to the new version N+1, install magma v(N) on the prod VM,
then install your pre-release package of magma v(N+1).

Building Python dependencies.
-----------------------------
The `pydep` tool lets you build Python dependencies. By default,
`build-magma.sh` figures out what Python packages we depend on, but it doesn't
build those packages. You can manually build packages by running

`./pydep finddep -b ../python/setup.py`

This will figure out what Python dependencies aren't satisfied by released
system packages and build those. You only need to do this when you've added a
Python dependency that doesn't have a debian package already available that
satisfies your constraints.

What is magma.lockfile?
-----------------------
`magma.lockfile` is generated by `pydep` every time you run `build-magma.sh`
and captures a specific set of Python packages that satisfy the Python
dependencies of Magma. This lets us keep track of what we're actually using for
each release.
