docs/readmes/lte/config_agw.md, before:

---
id: config_agw
title: AGW Configuration
sidebar_label: AGW Configuration
hide_title: true
---
# Access Gateway Configuration
## Prerequisites

Before beginning to configure your Magma Access Gateway, you will need to make
sure that it is running all services without crashing. You will also need a
working Orchestrator setup. Please follow the instructions in
"[Deploying Orchestrator](
https://facebookincubator.github.io/magma/docs/orc8r/deploying)" for a
successful Orchestrator installation.

You also should have completed all the steps in "[Access Gateway Setup (On Bare Metal)](https://facebookincubator.github.io/magma/docs/lte/setup_deb)".
For this part, we strongly recommend that you SSH into the AGW box from a host
machine instead of using the AGW directly.

## Access Gateway Configuration

First, copy the root CA for your Orchestrator deployment into your AGW:

```bash
HOST$ scp rootCA.pem magma@10.0.2.1:~
HOST$ ssh magma@10.0.2.1

AGW$ sudo mkdir -p /var/opt/magma/tmp/certs/
AGW$ sudo mv rootCA.pem /var/opt/magma/tmp/certs/rootCA.pem
```

Then, point your AGW to your Orchestrator:

```bash
AGW$ sudo mkdir -p /var/opt/magma/configs
AGW$ cd /var/opt/magma/configs
AGW$ sudo vi control_proxy.yml
```

Put the following contents into the file:

```
cloud_address: controller.yourdomain.com
cloud_port: 443
bootstrap_address: bootstrapper-controller.yourdomain.com
bootstrap_port: 443

rootca_cert: /var/opt/magma/tmp/certs/rootCA.pem
```

Then restart your services to pick up the config changes:

```bash
AGW$ sudo service magma@* stop
AGW$ sudo service magma@magmad restart
```

## Creating and Configuring Your Network

Navigate to your NMS instance, https://nms.yourdomain.com, and log in with the
administrator credentials you provisioned when installing Orchestrator. If this
is a fresh Orchestrator install, you will be prompted to create your first
network. Otherwise, select "Create Network" from the network selection icon
at the bottom of the left sidebar. Select `lte` as the network type and fill
the other fields as you see fit.

![Creating a network](assets/nms/createnetwork.png)

Go back to the network management app using the app selector in the bottom left
of the screen, then go to "Configure" in the left sidebar, followed by the
"Network Configuration" tab at the top of the screen. Configure your RAN and
EPC parameters which are appropriate for your hardware setup.

![Configuring a network](assets/nms/configurenetwork.png)

## Registering and Configuring Your Access Gateway

You need to grab the hardware secrets off your AGW:

```bash
AGW$ show_gateway_info.py
Hardware ID:
------------
1576b8e7-91a0-4e8d-b19f-d06421ad72b4

Challenge Key:
-----------
MHYwEAYHKoZIzj0CAQYFK4EEACIDYgAECMB9zEbAlLDQLq1K8tgCLO8Kie5IloU4QuAXEjtR19jt0KTkRzTYcBK1XwA+C6ALVKFWtlxQfrPpwOwLE7GFkZv1i7Lzc6dpqLnufSlvE/Xlq4n5K877tIuNac3U/8un
```

Navigate to "Gateways" on the NMS via the left navigation bar, hit
"Add Gateway", and fill out the form using the hardware secrets from above:

![Creating a gateway](assets/nms/create_agw.png)

After you create your gateway, hit the Edit icon in its table row, select the
"LTE" tab, and configure your EPC/RAN parameters. Make sure you enable enodeB
transmit.

![Configuring a gateway](assets/nms/configure_agw.png)

At this point, you can validate the connection between your AGW and
Orchestrator:

```bash
AGW$ journalctl -u magma@magmad -f
# Look for the following logs
# INFO:root:Checkin Successful!
# INFO:root:[SyncRPC] Got heartBeat from cloud
# INFO:root:Processing config update gateway_id
```

If everything looks OK, you can move on to configuring your enodeB.

Commit message:

Documentation for default APN
Summary: There is no clear documentation on which APN to use by the UEs to gain access to Magma AGW. This commit explicitly states the default APN supported out of the box.

Reviewed By: themarwhal

Differential Revision: D21233368

fbshipit-source-id: f85da09f12499ddfaeb9792e827492e29a6b5d22

docs/readmes/lte/config_agw.md, after:

---
id: config_agw
title: AGW Configuration
sidebar_label: AGW Configuration
hide_title: true
---
# Access Gateway Configuration
## Prerequisites

Before beginning to configure your Magma Access Gateway, you will need to make
sure that it is running all services without crashing. You will also need a
working Orchestrator setup. Please follow the instructions in
"[Deploying Orchestrator](
https://facebookincubator.github.io/magma/docs/orc8r/deploying)" for a
successful Orchestrator installation.

You also should have completed all the steps in "[Access Gateway Setup (On Bare Metal)](https://facebookincubator.github.io/magma/docs/lte/setup_deb)".
For this part, we strongly recommend that you SSH into the AGW box from a host
machine instead of using the AGW directly.

Magma Access Gateway has a default APN "oai.ipv4" that can be used by
UEs to access Magma in a non-federated set up. UEs must be configured
manually with "oai.ipv4" as their APN to be able to complete the attach procedure
at Magma Access Gateway out of the box.

## Access Gateway Configuration

First, copy the root CA for your Orchestrator deployment into your AGW:

```bash
HOST$ scp rootCA.pem magma@10.0.2.1:~
HOST$ ssh magma@10.0.2.1

AGW$ sudo mkdir -p /var/opt/magma/tmp/certs/
AGW$ sudo mv rootCA.pem /var/opt/magma/tmp/certs/rootCA.pem
```

Then, point your AGW to your Orchestrator:

```bash
AGW$ sudo mkdir -p /var/opt/magma/configs
AGW$ cd /var/opt/magma/configs
AGW$ sudo vi control_proxy.yml
```

Put the following contents into the file:

```
cloud_address: controller.yourdomain.com
cloud_port: 443
bootstrap_address: bootstrapper-controller.yourdomain.com
bootstrap_port: 443

rootca_cert: /var/opt/magma/tmp/certs/rootCA.pem
```

Then restart your services to pick up the config changes:

```bash
AGW$ sudo service magma@* stop
AGW$ sudo service magma@magmad restart
```

## Creating and Configuring Your Network

Navigate to your NMS instance, https://nms.yourdomain.com, and log in with the
administrator credentials you provisioned when installing Orchestrator. If this
is a fresh Orchestrator install, you will be prompted to create your first
network. Otherwise, select "Create Network" from the network selection icon
at the bottom of the left sidebar. Select `lte` as the network type and fill
the other fields as you see fit.

![Creating a network](assets/nms/createnetwork.png)

Go back to the network management app using the app selector in the bottom left
of the screen, then go to "Configure" in the left sidebar, followed by the
"Network Configuration" tab at the top of the screen. Configure your RAN and
EPC parameters which are appropriate for your hardware setup.

![Configuring a network](assets/nms/configurenetwork.png)

## Registering and Configuring Your Access Gateway

You need to grab the hardware secrets off your AGW:

```bash
AGW$ show_gateway_info.py
Hardware ID:
------------
1576b8e7-91a0-4e8d-b19f-d06421ad72b4

Challenge Key:
-----------
MHYwEAYHKoZIzj0CAQYFK4EEACIDYgAECMB9zEbAlLDQLq1K8tgCLO8Kie5IloU4QuAXEjtR19jt0KTkRzTYcBK1XwA+C6ALVKFWtlxQfrPpwOwLE7GFkZv1i7Lzc6dpqLnufSlvE/Xlq4n5K877tIuNac3U/8un
```

Navigate to "Gateways" on the NMS via the left navigation bar, hit
"Add Gateway", and fill out the form using the hardware secrets from above:

![Creating a gateway](assets/nms/create_agw.png)

After you create your gateway, hit the Edit icon in its table row, select the
"LTE" tab, and configure your EPC/RAN parameters. Make sure you enable enodeB
transmit.

![Configuring a gateway](assets/nms/configure_agw.png)

At this point, you can validate the connection between your AGW and
Orchestrator:

```bash
AGW$ journalctl -u magma@magmad -f
# Look for the following logs
# INFO:root:Checkin Successful!
# INFO:root:[SyncRPC] Got heartBeat from cloud
# INFO:root:Processing config update gateway_id
```

If everything looks OK, you can move on to configuring your enodeB.
