---
id: s1ap_tests
title: S1AP Integration Tests
hide_title: true
---
# S1AP Integration Tests
Current testing workflow for VM-only S1AP integration tests. We cover
gateway-only tests and some general notes.

TODO: Update this document once integration tests with cloud are also supported

Our VM-only tests use 3 Vagrant-managed VMs hosted on the local device (laptop):

- *magma*, i.e. magma-dev or gateway
- *magma_test*, i.e. s1ap_tester
- *magma_trfserver*, i.e. an Iperf server to generate uplink/downlink traffic

## Gateway-only tests

These tests use all 3 VMs listed above. The *magma_test* VM abstracts away the
UE and eNodeB, the *magma_trfserver* emulates the Internet, while the *magma* VM
acts as the gateway between *magma_test* and *magma_trfserver*.

### Gateway VM setup

Spin up and provision the gateway VM, then make and start its services:

1. From `magma/lte/gateway` on the host machine: `vagrant up magma && vagrant ssh magma`
1. Now in the gateway VM: `cd $MAGMA_ROOT/lte/gateway && make run`

### Test VM setup

Spin up and provision the s1ap tester's VM, make, then make in the integ_tests directory.

1. From `magma/lte/gateway` on the host machine: `vagrant up magma_test && vagrant ssh magma_test`
1. Now in the *magma_test* VM:
    1. cd `$MAGMA_ROOT/lte/gateway/python && make`
    1. cd `$MAGMA_ROOT/lte/gateway/python/integ_tests && make`

You will see "-bash: deactivate: command not found" if this is the first time
you are compiling the tester code. It can be ignored.

### Run tests

From `$MAGMA_ROOT/lte/gateway/python/integ_tests` on the *magma_test* VM, run
either individual tests or the full suite of tests. A safe, non-flaky test to
run is `s1aptests/test_attach_detach.py`.

* Individual test(s): `make integ_test TESTS=<test(s)_to_run>`
* All tests: `make integ_test`

**Note**: The traffic tests will fail as traffic server is not running in this
setup. Look at the section below on running traffic tests.

### Running uplink/downlink traffic tests

1. On the *magma* VM, run, `disable-tcp-checksumming`

1. On the *magma_test* VM, `disable-tcp-checksumming`

1. Start the traffic server VM from the host, `vagrant up magma_trfserver && vagrant ssh magma_trfserver`

1. From *magma_trfserver* VM, run `disable-tcp-checksumming && trfgen-server`

Running `make integ_test` in *magma_test* VM should succeed now.

## Notes

- Restart the *magma* VM (`vagrant reload magma`) on an assertion error involving `ENB_S1_SETUP_RESP.` This is a known issue.
- See *[Bindings for Magma's REST API](https://fb.quip.com/4tmUAtlox4Oy)* for notes on the Python bindings for our REST API generated by [swagger-codegen](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen).
- It may be cleaner to set the host using the [configuration class](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen/blob/master/samples/client/petstore/python/petstore_api/configuration.py). This is also where we can set SSL options.
